Job description: Data Repair  - Tier 1 Technical Support Engineer General Description:  Technical Support Engineer for the company's family of Internet based products. Candidate will possess a broad technical knowledge of analog, digital and VoIP voice services; IP networking; and data service provision. Candidate will be highly experienced in providing excellent customer service and problem escalation/resolution. Primary Job Functions: Provide Tier 1 support to end users, dealers and distributors. Provide troubleshooting and technical support via phone, web based tools and email. Advise customers regarding the product's proper use and address specific user issues. During problem escalations, act as a liaison between customers and Tier 2 support. Candidate will assist the customer base during installations. Required Skills: * Strong understanding of Ethernet, TCP/IP routing, Network packet analysis tools use and configuration. * Strong technical and analytical skills.* Solid experience in problem analysis and resolution of software problems. Proven ability to function in a self-directed environment. * Must excel in a fast-paced, agile environment where critical thinking and strong problem solving skills are required for success. * Innovative thinker who is positive, proactive, and readily embraces change. * Ability to handle clients professionally during all interfaces.* Sales support to help resellers and end users select, optimal installation configurations in a complex network environment. * Strong written and verbal communication skills.Desired Skills: Experience troubleshooting and correcting Jitter, Latency, and Packet loss across public or enterprise networks using network analysis tools. Experience: 2+ years of Telecom and Networking experience in a technical support/help desk environment.Education:Network+ and/or CCNA certification (preferred)Work Status: Full time Travel: Position requires 0% travel. Reporting: Reports to the Manager of Customer Service Technical Support Sample CorpSample Corp Confidential	Page 1 of 1	