 IT Professional with 16 years of experience spanning across IMS, IT Ops and Service Delivery.Summary:• Sixteen solid years of experience in Technology Operations, Information Technology, Managing IT across the Enterprise with vast experience ranging from System and Network Infrastructure, Delivery Management, Service Revenue Management, Gross Margin profitability, Service Delivery, Strategy Planning, IT Infrastructure Services, IT Consulting, SAP Implementation in Manufacturing Industry, Business Analysis, Account Management, Financial Management, and Vendor Management & Negotiation • Achievements in managing large strategic IT initiatives involving re-engineering of business processes, operations and enterprise applications.• Excellent analytical, organizational, interpersonal skills, Identification and negotiation for Business and Technology requirements. • Committed to efficient and accurate management of information systems in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment. • Proven ability to translate Business needs into technology requirements that supports the company's Business objectives, and to successfully manage all phases of IT Projects from needs analysis and requirements definition to vendor, implementation, and training. • Results oriented professional, recognized for taking on major initiatives, and adapting to rapidly changing environment and resolving mission-critical issues to ensure bottom-line success. Experience Summary:Total Experience 				16 years 5 monthsTeam Management Experience 		13+ years Project Management Experience		11+ years Delivery Management 			9+ years Contact Details:Address: 		Flat No. 402, A- Wing, Vidya CHS, Sankalp Sahniwas,  			Gen A.K. Vaidya Marg, Goregaon (East), Mumbai – 400065, India. Email: 			nilesh@nileshroy.com / nilesh.roy@gmail.com  Mobile: 			+91 982 009 4678 Date of Birth: 		26th May 1975 Current Location: 	Mumbai (India).Experience:March 2012 – Till Date Nucsoft Ltd., MumbaiSenior Manager - Technology Management I am currently assisting a leading European Bank in their strategic restructuring initiatives at India in the capacity of Program Manager with key focus on specific core capabilities associated with procuring, designing and advising on technology-enabled transformation programmes:• Implementation of governance routines for delivery of programs across the portfolio • Engaging with senior management for strategy planning & business reviews • Building subject-matter-expertise on programs/applications and supporting business & operations in defining processes & best practices • Transitioning and supporting infrastructure in “Business As Usual” Mode and ensuring high levels of customer satisfaction • Technical Programme Set Up, Assurance and Recovery - TSAR: Defining, shaping and mobilising technology programmes. • Complex Technology Procurement: Delivering large-scale, complex procurement programmes with a focus on technology transformation. 
February 2011 – August 2011 V2 Solutions (V2 Tech Ventures Pvt Ltd.), MumbaiSenior Manager - IT Team Size - 9. ➢ To manage and set up IT Infrastructure of Mumbai, Bangalore Office and connectivity between US and India office.➢ Oversee the administration and maintenance of IT infrastructure.➢ Oversee the administration of LAN / WAN.➢ To strategies, plan, develop and implement the company’s IT budget and infrastructure plan.➢ To manage and mentor the IT support team.➢ To evaluate user need and system functionality.➢ To ensure that all the facilities meet the needs of the end user with appropriate advice & support.➢ Introducing and installing new system upgrades and security backups for hardware and software systems.➢ To ensure the smooth running of all the systems, including anti-virus software, print services and e-mail provision.➢ To adhere the software licensing laws.➢ To provide secure access to the network for remote users.➢ To manage crisis situations, this may involve complex technical hardware or software problems.➢ To oversee troubleshooting, system backups, archiving, and disaster recovery and provide expert support whenever necessary.➢ To manage and oversees all telephone changes, including routing for seating assignments.➢ Oversee all help desk activities at the regional level.➢ Build and maintain vendor relationships and manage the purchase of hardware and software products.➢ Manage the purchasing of all software, hardware and other IT supplies.➢ To ensure that company assets are well maintained.➢ Updating and upgrading with the latest Technologies.  February 2009 - December 2009 Nucleus GIS & ITeS Ltd. (Part of Asit C. Mehta Group of Companies), MumbaiHead - Technology (Reporting to CEO)Team Size - 10. ➢ Manage, control and monitor the installation, operation and maintenance of IT infrastructure, i.e. data, voice network, call centre equipment, desktops and communication systems. ➢ IT budgeting (OPEX/CAPEX) & plan allocations to various quarters. Meeting AOP.  ➢ Ensure the continuous business operations through contingency planning and implementation and integrity through security administration. Provide management support for the 24 x 7 shop.  ➢ Responsible for the overall direction, planning and control of all aspects related to the Information Technology (IT) department and its functions - i.e. systems development if applicable, security and control, network and communications and end-user systems support. ➢ Efficient management of technical services delivery to the organization.  ➢ General management of IT within the organization.  ➢ Manage the fast paced growth in the number of processes and the expansion of existing business processes.  ➢ Staff Development. ➢ Guarantee continuous business operations.  ➢ Guarantee the supply of professional IT expertise required by the organization that is motivated to pursue common goals with the business.  ➢ Vendor Management and vendor payouts.  March 2007 - January 2009 Capgemini Consulting India Pvt. Ltd., MumbaiOctober 2007 - January 2009 Service Delivery Manager - IT Infrastructure (Remote Infrastructure Management) Team Size - 70. 12 direct reportees. 58 indirect reportees.I was responsible for the Management of the IT Infrastructure of Schneider Electric for the entire EMEA region. My core responsibilities comprised of 4 major activities - 1. Day-to-day IT Helpdesk Management for the client’s users. 2. End user Desktop infrastructure 3. Datacenter management.4. New infrastructure / branch roll-outs for the entire region comprising of small (5 to 25 man offices), medium (26 to 100 man offices), large (101 to 200 man offices) sizes.Other KRAs were Enterprise Change Management, Project Planning, Resource Planning and Mobilization, Managing deliveries and resolving dependencies, Client Relationship Management and internal interfacing for project requirements, Resource training and optimization & job rotation, Deliver the project within estimated budget and timescales, Involved in preparation of SLAs.March 2007 - October 2007Project Manager - IT Infrastructure (Remote Infrastructure Management)Team Size - 105. 25 direct reportees. 80 indirect reportees.Brought on board for the ASPIRE Project (UK - Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs), my responsibilities comprised of ensuring successful delivery of programme or project lifecycle; from design & definition of the benefits case, through technical or transformation delivery & potentially ultimately transitioning the delivered solution to an outsourced operation.
September 2006 - March 2007VirStra i-Technology Services Ltd., PuneProject Manager - IT Infrastructure (Planning Team) & Organizational Sizing Expert Team Size - 46. 34 direct reportees. 12 indirect reportees.Brought on board to consolidate and streamline business practices surrounding IT projects. I was managing multiple projects for Shinsei Bank Tokyo, from conceptualization to implementation. Project value ranged from $500,000.00 to $2.5 million. Reporting to the CTO, and as part of the Planning Team, my key activities entailed development and management of budgets, hiring and training design staff, interface with staff and clients during project cycle and meeting milestone and delivery dates.February 2006 - August 2006Hexaware Technologies Ltd., Mumbai Infrastructure Architect & Technical Project Manager (Remote Infrastructure Management)Team Size - 10 direct reportees. Reporting to the Project Director, my responsibilities included managing multiple projects for Hexaware’s clients, design of the server architecture, deployment and maintenance of applications/services across the project. This role included working with the Solution Developers to design for scalability, reliability, manageability, performance, and security, and the Business Analyst for strategic direction (both conforming to, and helping to define).March 2005 - February 2006Pictureal (India) Pvt. Ltd., MumbaiNetwork & Security Specialist (Manager Level)Team Size - 5 direct reportees.Reporting to the Director - IT, my main responsibilities were to ensure the smooth running and security of the network & data infrastructure. I also handled the design, planning, implementation, management, maintenance and upgradation of the network security systems.July 1997 - February 2005  S. K. International, MumbaiNovember 2000 - February 2005  Internet Specialist (Asst. Manager Level) (Internal Promotion) Team Size - 50 direct reportees.Deploying & Administering Corporate Messaging Solutions for Customers based on Microsoft Technologies. Implementing High End connectivity solutions like VPNs & VLANs based on Dialup, ISDN or Leased Line connectivity to Internet. Designing & Implementing Network Security policies for prevention against network spoofing, Firewalls.July 1997 - November 2000Senior Customer Support EngineerBuilt a strong customer base by providing support on various messaging, internet, software & training related issues to existing customers. Managed & driven a team of engineers towards total customer satisfaction. Designed in-house training documentation for the customer base.June 1996 - July 1997Datapro InfoWorld, MumbaiCustomer Support EngineerSelected from the Campus Recruitment Drive, I had 2 primary responsibilities → a) Pure electronics work - PCB troubleshooting, and b) Corporate Training – responsible for building up a strong customer base by providing in-house and on-site Training to corporate clients. Designed and implemented training course for new recruits speeding profitability. 
Attributes and Qualifications• Sales support experience in complex technical environments.• Ability to prepare and present C-level presentations• In-depth experience of application development, support, technical services• Experience with issues, constraints and problems typically found in a support or development team• Understand and experienced in issues such as IT productivity, performance management, service level management, quality and rework metrics, SDLC, Application, help desk. Consultative Skills • Strong listening skills• Strong facilitation and consensus building skills• Ability to establish and maintain an environment of change and improvement• Ability to build and maintain support and buy-in at all levels• Synthesize disparate pieces of information and communicate recommendations in non-technical terms. Leadership Skills• Ability to create plans to achieve specific results• Take ownership for achieving objectives• Motivator and strategist• Know how and when to get into details to solve issues: Situational Leader• Direct others to achieve objectives• Problem solver• Able to achieve results while strengthening capabilities of the team• Provide Leadership/Oversight to other project managers to ensure quality delivery• Can create delivery strategies to ensure quality delivery of multiple projects Personal and Inter-personal Skills• Ability to see the big picture and communicate its value• Ability to build trust and show empathy with developers and IT staff• Communicate effectively with IT management (line and exec)• Demonstrate confidence in outcome of project• Process focusedEducation:GraduationB.E. - Electronics & TelecommunicationsBombay University67.22%199612th10+2 – ScienceC.B.S.E.72.00%199210thS.S.C.Maharashtra State Board66.67%1990Professional Certifications:Microsoft Corporation									MumbaiM. C. S. E. + InternetM. C. S. E.M. C. S. D.M. C. P.CCNACIW											Lombard, IL, USAMaster CIW AdministratorInterests:Networking with contacts, reading, philately, surfing, computers, music, badminton, table tennis.Other Details:Current CTC: 		INR.12,00,000 Expected CTC:		INR.20,00,000. Negotiable as per company budget.Notice Period: 		1 month.Passport Number: 		F 4 1 5 2 2 9 0. Valid up to 19-July-2015 PAN Number:		A G U P R 4 6 9 1 N  Current Location: 		Mumbai (India).All information on this resume is © of Nilesh Roy.